Hello everyone and welcome to part two of the blog clone project.
So our basic file set up is now completed from part 1 and the next step is to set up our models so we
have a model up-I file inside of our blog application.
And personally I think it's always a good idea for a first step when creating a new project to create
that model's PI file and actually set up those models because really for using class based views those
are going to dictate the whole way your site work.
So I think models are a great starting point but really should feel free to choose whatever feels like
the most natural starting point to you.
So maybe you like thinking about it from a Jor-El's to use to model standpoint instead of the reverse
way which is the way we're going to do it here.
Once you've done enough projects you'll have a natural flow so don't feel like what I'm writing here
is written in stone.
I personally prefer doing the models first.
But really it's totally up to you first.
OK with all that being said let's hop over to the editor and get started on that models that py file
book.
Here I am at my models PI file underneath the blog application and what I'm going to do is start setting
up the models that we're eventually going to use interviews and interview URLs since I'll be using class
based views for the posts.
It's a good idea to just set up the model that way it's much easier to connect them.
Well we're actually working with the views so there's a few more things I need to import before we get
started on this.
I'm going to say from Jingo that you tildes import weps time zone and that's just all lowercase.
And then I'm also going to import the reverse function.
We've seen it before and it'll make more sense.
We're actually dealing with the class based views and the function based views that we'll see later
on.
But right now I'll just import it and we'll see how to work with it in a little bit.
So it's from Jingo that core you are all resolvers import reverse.
And if we didn't have it right now eventually more work and of using Urals we would see some more sort
of error that says hey maybe you should add a reverse method to your class.
OK so the first thing is to actually create some sort of post model.
So each blog post is going to connect to a model in our database.
So create a class and I'm going to call it post and it will inherit from models.
Whoops.
The model that will tell and I'm going to have a couple of fields here or attributes I'll have an author
title text creation day and a publication date.
So I'm going to be able to create a post but maybe not publish it right away if I want to save stuff
as drafts I'll be able to do that.
So also author is equal to models and this will be a foreign key and I'm going to pass in here.
Th da user.
And so later on when we deal with multi-user projects we will actually be following this sort of design.
But since we only expect one person to really come in and have power over this blog as far as updating
or having drafts and maybe even putting in comments and approving them.
But we're going to do it just directly link an author to an authorization user.
So when we create a super user that's basically going to be someone who can author new posts and then
a title for posts is going to be models.
DA That's going to be a character field.
Character fields and we'll give it a max length of 200 characters really a totally arbitrary choice
here and then we'll have a textfield to the actual text of that blog post.
That's going to be models and we'll have a textfield there and it will put a max length for anything
because I don't know how long my text is going to be.
And then finally we'll have to date fields will have a creative date and that's going to be it models
a date time field.
And the default for that is going to be time zone now.
So that's why I had to import from jingle that you tildes import time zone and if you go to your actual
settings up-I file so coming over here to setting up pie pyro quick it's actually over here at this
new tab.
If you start scrolling down eventually where you're going to see is somewhere it should define what
time zone you're in.
So the internationalization I have my language code in English and you can see that I have this UTC
time zone so whatever time zone makes the most sense for you that's what you should set up here.
It's some sort of code for your time zone and basically what's going to happen is as you're writing
a post they decide to say oh I created this post right now it's going to default to you created this
post.
At the current time zone but for the publication they were going to say Published Date is equal to models
a date time field.
And we're not going to have a default time zone.
Now instead all do is we'll say it can be blank because maybe you don't want to publish it yet or can
also be.
No maybe you don't have any publication date whatsoever so you can either leave it blank or have it
just be null meaning it can be empty.
And that will make more sense when we actually start creating posts.
And again you know a lot of options here you don't have to do everything the way I'm doing it but this
kind of makes sense for the way we're going to set up our project.
And then finally we're going to have a couple of methods on this.
So one method that we need to do is actually set up the publication date method.
So I'll say you can have a method called publish on this post and any method inside a class should take
self.
I'm going to kind of collapse the tree and this terminal so we get a little more space here to work
with.
So I'll say publish self and what's going to happen is I'm going to grab my actual published data attribute
and then set it equal to time zone now and then I'll say self-taught save.
So what does this actually mean.
Well remember that when I create a date it doesn't matter I always default to the current time I hit
create which makes sense.
You can't really edit a creation date so you'll say OK I'm creating a new blog post.
Hit that on the day of that blog post being created is the current time but the publish date can be
blank and it can also be null.
When I am ready to get published I'll be a published button and then when I hit that post button Ill
eventually say OK right now when you hit publish It's the current time and I'm going to save that.
So that's kind of all done automatically for you.
The Creation day automatically by this one line published dates that's going to be linked to another
button or function will just have it as a method.
Here OK then post can have comments on them.
So create another method called approve or underscore comments that's going to be itself.
And then all of this is going to do is say return self-talk comments and I will filter it by proved
that seals make it approved with a D.
Comments equals true.
So what does that saying.
Eventually I'm going to have a list of comments somewhere.
Some of them are going to be approved comments.
Some of them are going to be not approved comments.
So what I'm going to do is grab those comments.
Filter them by saying OK is this a truly approved comment.
And then I can show them along with post that anyone one of his web site and then finally of any model
it's always a good idea to have some sort of string representation of it.
So I will say as to your past and self and what makes the most sense for a post is the actual title.
So I'll say self-titled and I'm going to save this.
Eventually we're going to have to do is use this reverse method.
So old kind of cross that path once we get there.
So right now I'll leave it blank.
But we definitely aren't done with the post class.
But what I want to do since the actual comment class is going to look so similar to this.
It's a good idea that we kind of take care of it right now.
So we're going to create a new class
called comments and it's going to look really really similar to what we just created.
So it's also going to be a post you can almost think of these as almost like a mini posts.
So it has a foreign key and it's going to come from blog post and we'll give it a related name of comments
and that will make more sense when I start dealing with the actual views that have to do with comments
basically this line is going to connect each comment to an actual post much in the same way that it
become a peer.
We connected the author to an actual authorization user each comma is going to be connected to a blog
application.
Post and then the author will say models thought character field and we're going to have anyone kind
of write their own name in there.
So we'll say a max length of I don't know 200 even that's probably a lot but not a big deal.
We'll have the text of the comment be really similar we'll say models thought textfield no constraints
there and then we also have created dates and the soby models a date time field and the default is going
to be time zone but now kind of makes sense.
A comment once they hit create that comment that date time field gets put into place and then finally
instead of a publication process we have in approved comments process.
So Ill say approved comment singular is equal to models thought and this is going to be a boolean field
so true or false is that or prove they are not and the fall is going to be false that I have approved
this comment yet okay.
So let's say that right now.
So just as a quick review what we have.
It's almost the same as if we come up here the post class but we have a comic class posts connected
to a post so each comment lines a posts we have an author to it which is just going to be basically
what anyone who wants to can just write that in.
Note the author of The comment is not the same as the author of the post nor is it a foreign key.
It's basically just someone typing in who wrote it so Jondo can come in and just say hey I'm going to
post this comment here.
I'll fill in my name and it'll just be a character field and then we're going to come up here say Tex
model what textfield the creation day and then approves comments and what I have to do is make sure
that this approved comments is the same as approved comments here.
So either they should both be plural or both be singular.
Basically what I mean is they should both be the same thing so here I said uproots comments I think
earlier I said at an Esson here since I believe in this singular.
Let's actually just have them both be singular so keep that in mind.
Had a little typo there.
They should both match.
So either they both have an s or they both have no s.
Ok moving along what I'm going to do is create a few methods here.
I'll create an approved method.
Self I will say self approved underscore comments and I will say set it to true.
This is essentially just like that publication method we worked on it.
Post and then we'll say self-taught save.
And then what I'm going to do here say ADF create some sort of string representation say self and then
say return self-taught text OK I'm going to save this now.
And so basically we have the main skeleton of a comment and a post and hopefully can see it there almost
the exact same thing except that a post its is connected to an actual super user on the Web site and
its publication date is kind of analogous to the approval of a comment or a comments.
Post is linked foreign key wise to an actual post and then we have this author which is going to be
basically anyone can just write their name in now to actually finish off this models not pi we still
have to worry about the get absolute Your Al methods.
Weve seen this before in the class based view lectures but now its time to actually use this or we're
going to do is take advantage of this reverse function.
Basically the whole idea behind this is after someone creates a post or a comment where should the Web
site take them.
So we're going to do is use those detail views for the pose and we'll use some function views for the
comments.
But let's start off with this post class and I'm going to say over here it says approved comments on
ADF and have that get absolute.
Your method and it has to be called Get underscore absolute underscore your l.
This is something that chinked actually looks for.
You can't call it something else.
And so it's saying all right once you've created a instance of this post what should I do.
Well we're going to say return and call the reverse.
Hopefully that we also talked a little bit about reverse lazy earlier on the right now we just need
reverse and we'll have some sort of view that is a detail view meaning we'll have eventually a post
detail your el and then something we're also going to add in is a keyword argument dictionary or they'll
be args and that's going to be a dictionary where the primary key matches up with self piquet.
So all this is saying is after I create a post I'm done creating it.
I hit some sort of publication where should I go we'll go to that post detail page for the primary key
of the post that you just created makes sense and make more sense when we actually create the view for
it.
And if that this is a little confusing for you definitely refer back to those class based view lectures
and scrolling down we're going to do something really similar to the comment.
And in this case we're going to do is say if now sends a comment needs to be approved by a super user
it doesn't make sense to actually go back to a list of the comments.
Instead we're going to do is say once that person is done typing in that comment they're going to go
back to the list of all the posts.
It's kind of up to you what you think is most reasonable.
Maybe you could have them go back to the actual detail itself but we'll just have them since the comment
actually needs to be approved before displaying there will have it go back to that main home page of
all the post lists.
So I will say the F get underscore absolute Your L self and I'm going to return as a reverse call to
post underscore list.
That's going to be a list view and we're actually going to use that as the home page to the home page
of this Web site is going to be just a list of all the posts.
All right.
So this actually seems like a really natural stopping point for part 2.
So that's what we're going to deal with just ending here.
But that's it for the models that py file we won't need to mess around or anything else.
So as a quick review before we hang on to our Before We Go on to the next lecture excuse me we've created
two classes here are two models.
The post model and the comment model commet model is almost like a baby brother or baby sister to the
post where we just have the author of the titles the text and then some sort of creation date and some
sort of publication date in the comments.
We have the post which connects to the comment post which connects to an actual post the author which
is just some character field so anyone can type in their name and then we have the Creation day and
the approval date.
And that's really all there is to it.
We also have these absolute Ural methods which once you've created a comment or a post tells the website
where to go back to.
And that's basically it.
OK thanks everyone and I see you at the next lecture.